SuperSecretSettingsList.md, before:

The old super secret settings were removed in 24w11a, Souper Secret Setting's Library, [Luminance](https://modrinth.com/mod/luminance), re-adds them with a builtin resourcepack

Luminance also has its own builtin shaders, also enabled in resourcepacks, this list may be outdated

Extra Soup is builtin with Souper Secret Settings, and adds *many* new shaders, notably quite a few which are much more disruptive to gameplay


All builtin resourcepacks should be enabled by default, but they may need to enabled manually

| Vanilla          | Super Secret Settings | Luminance        | Extra Soup      |
|------------------|-----------------------|------------------|-----------------|
| **[minecraft:]** | **[minecraft:]**      | **[luminance:]** | **[soup:]**     |
| box_blur         | antialias             | bloom_dither     | anaglyph        |
| creeper          | art                   | crt              | autumnal        |
| invert           | bits                  | depth_dither     | bevel           |
| spider           | blobs                 | eightbit         | blobs_outline   |
|                  | blobs2                | gentoo           | blobs_square    |
|                  | bloom                 | golden           | bloom_color     |
|                  | bumpy                 | grayscale        | bloom_spike     |
|                  | color_convolve        | health_overlay   | brightness      |
|                  | deconverge            | mirror           | checkerboard    |
|                  | desaturate            | outlined         | cinematic       |
|                  | flip                  | outlined2        | collapse        |
|                  | fxaa                  | pixelated        | color_bleed     |
|                  | green                 | rainbow          | color_blind     |
|                  | love                  | saturate         | color_shuffle   |
|                  | notch                 | silhouette       | contrast        |
|                  | ntsc                  | silhouette2      | depth_outline   |
|                  | outline               | sixteen_colors   | dramatic        |
|                  | pencil                | tiltshift        | film_grain      |
|                  | phosphor              |                  | fisheye         |
|                  | scan_pincushion       |                  | fractal         |
|                  | shareware             |                  | frigid          |
|                  | sobel                 |                  | gaussian        |
|                  | wobble                |                  | ghost           |
|                  |                       |                  | glass           |
|                  |                       |                  | glitchy         |
|                  |                       |                  | half_invert     |
|                  |                       |                  | halftone        |
|                  |                       |                  | harsh_dither    |
|                  |                       |                  | highpass        |
|                  |                       |                  | horror          |
|                  |                       |                  | hue_rotate      |
|                  |                       |                  | hyperspace      |
|                  |                       |                  | infrared        |
|                  |                       |                  | interference    |
|                  |                       |                  | kaleidoscope    |
|                  |                       |                  | life            |
|                  |                       |                  | mandelbrot      |
|                  |                       |                  | mouse           |
|                  |                       |                  | normalise       |
|                  |                       |                  | out_of_bounds   |
|                  |                       |                  | pixels          |
|                  |                       |                  | plants          |
|                  |                       |                  | retro           |
|                  |                       |                  | rings           |
|                  |                       |                  | rolling_shutter |
|                  |                       |                  | rotate          |
|                  |                       |                  | sepia           |
|                  |                       |                  | sequins         |
|                  |                       |                  | suspicious      |
|                  |                       |                  | thermal         |
|                  |                       |                  | toon            |
|                  |                       |                  | toxic_waste     |
|                  |                       |                  | voronoi         |

Commit message:

super secret settings list now marks april fools shaders

SuperSecretSettingsList.md, after:

The old super secret settings were removed in 24w11a, Souper Secret Setting's Library, [Luminance](https://modrinth.com/mod/luminance), re-adds them with a builtin resourcepack, as well as adding various shaders used in april fools snapshots (marked with *)

Luminance also has its own builtin shaders, also enabled in resourcepacks, this list may be outdated

Extra Soup is builtin with Souper Secret Settings, and adds *many* new shaders, notably quite a few which are much more disruptive to gameplay


All builtin resourcepacks should be enabled by default, but they may need to enabled manually

| Vanilla          | Super Secret Settings | Luminance        | Extra Soup      |
|------------------|-----------------------|------------------|-----------------|
| **[minecraft:]** | **[minecraft:]**      | **[luminance:]** | **[soup:]**     |
| box_blur         | antialias             | bloom_dither     | anaglyph        |
| creeper          | art                   | crt              | autumnal        |
| invert           | bits                  | depth_dither     | bevel           |
| spider           | blobs                 | eightbit         | blobs_outline   |
|                  | blobs2                | gentoo           | blobs_square    |
|                  | bloom*                | golden           | bloom_color     |
|                  | bumpy                 | grayscale        | bloom_spike     |
|                  | color_convolve        | health_overlay   | brightness      |
|                  | deconverge            | mirror           | checkerboard    |
|                  | desaturate            | outlined         | cinematic       |
|                  | flip                  | outlined2        | collapse        |
|                  | fxaa                  | pixelated        | color_bleed     |
|                  | green                 | rainbow          | color_blind     |
|                  | love*                 | saturate         | color_shuffle   |
|                  | notch                 | silhouette       | contrast        |
|                  | ntsc                  | silhouette2      | depth_outline   |
|                  | outline               | sixteen_colors   | dramatic        |
|                  | pencil                | tiltshift        | film_grain      |
|                  | phosphor              |                  | fisheye         |
|                  | scan_pincushion       |                  | fractal         |
|                  | shareware*            |                  | frigid          |
|                  | sobel                 |                  | gaussian        |
|                  | wobble                |                  | ghost           |
|                  |                       |                  | glass           |
|                  |                       |                  | glitchy         |
|                  |                       |                  | half_invert     |
|                  |                       |                  | halftone        |
|                  |                       |                  | harsh_dither    |
|                  |                       |                  | highpass        |
|                  |                       |                  | horror          |
|                  |                       |                  | hue_rotate      |
|                  |                       |                  | hyperspace      |
|                  |                       |                  | infrared        |
|                  |                       |                  | interference    |
|                  |                       |                  | kaleidoscope    |
|                  |                       |                  | life            |
|                  |                       |                  | mandelbrot      |
|                  |                       |                  | mouse           |
|                  |                       |                  | normalise       |
|                  |                       |                  | out_of_bounds   |
|                  |                       |                  | pixels          |
|                  |                       |                  | plants          |
|                  |                       |                  | retro           |
|                  |                       |                  | rings           |
|                  |                       |                  | rolling_shutter |
|                  |                       |                  | rotate          |
|                  |                       |                  | sepia           |
|                  |                       |                  | sequins         |
|                  |                       |                  | suspicious      |
|                  |                       |                  | thermal         |
|                  |                       |                  | toon            |
|                  |                       |                  | toxic_waste     |
|                  |                       |                  | voronoi         |
