ResourcepackGuide/ResourcepackGuide.md, before:

# Resourcepack Guide

This guide is split into 3 parts, each part assumes knowledge from the previous section

1. [Setting up a Resourcepack](PackSetup.md)
2. [Adding a Shader](AddingShaders.md)
3. [Writing custom Shader code](WritingShaderCode.md)

This is specifically a guide for making a [Souper Secret Settings](https://modrinth.com/mod/souper-secret-settings) compatible resourcepack, however it also covers a lot of general post shader topics, so you could also use this as a guide for making vanilla post shaders (e.g, to then apply through the transparency.json from fabulous graphics)

There is an existing [Google Doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15TOAOVLgSNEoHGzpNlkez5cryH3hFF3awXL5Py81EMk/edit#heading=h.ulk02mtiolc9), which covers many of the same topics, although it is of course limited to just what you can do in vanilla - Souper Secret Settings allows for some more features and QoL here and there

Souper Secret Settings also supports resourcepacks made for [Perspective](https://modrinth.com/mod/mclegoman-perspective), which will have its own guide at some point in the future

Commit message:

Add Perspective Super Secret Settings Link

ResourcepackGuide/ResourcepackGuide.md, after:

# Resourcepack Guide

This guide is split into 3 parts, each part assumes knowledge from the previous section

1. [Setting up a Resourcepack](PackSetup.md)
2. [Adding a Shader](AddingShaders.md)
3. [Writing custom Shader code](WritingShaderCode.md)

This is specifically a guide for making a [Souper Secret Settings](https://modrinth.com/mod/souper-secret-settings) compatible resourcepack, however it also covers a lot of general post shader topics, so you could also use this as a guide for making vanilla post shaders (e.g, to then apply through the transparency.json from fabulous graphics)

There is an existing [Google Doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15TOAOVLgSNEoHGzpNlkez5cryH3hFF3awXL5Py81EMk/edit#heading=h.ulk02mtiolc9), which covers many of the same topics, although it is of course limited to just what you can do in vanilla - Souper Secret Settings allows for some more features and QoL here and there

Souper Secret Settings also supports resource packs made for [Perspective](https://modrinth.com/mod/mclegoman-perspective). For specific information related to Perspective, you can visit the [Perspective Wiki: Super Secret Settings](https://mclegoman.com/Perspective/Super_Secret_Settings).
